you
hi I'm mark Polk with RV education 101
and today I want to discuss and
demonstrate a popular and easy upgrade
for your RV I'm going to convert a
12-volt incandescent light fixture in
the RV to an LED light fixture but it
doesn't stop there with this unique
product by RV lighting with the Eco LED
brand name I'm going to demonstrate how
easy it is to install a pulse width
modulation or PWM dimmer in the 12-volt
light circuit of your RV that's
controlled by this wireless wall switch
let's get started right now
light-emitting diodes or LED technology
is becoming more and more popular among
RV owners for several reasons LED
lighting is much more efficient than
conventional incandescent or halogen
bulbs which results in less battery draw
they are brighter and don't produce heat
like other bulbs and they last much
longer because of the solid-state design
the first step is to convert the
existing light fixture with LED
replacements this is literally as simple
as changing a light bulb make sure the
bulb you are replacing is not hot and
remove it from the fixture we're going
to use this pancake style 12 LED light
by RV lighting it has some really nice
features first this LED uses pulse width
modulation technology to allow the use
of a 12-volt light dimmer and the PWM
technology prevents interference or
noise on other devices in the RV like
televisions and radios next if your
existing light fixture uses a wedge
style fitting like this pancake LED bulb
you simply plug it into the fixture and
you're done for bayonet fittings like
the one we're replacing we use this
unique Universal swivel adapter by RV
lighting just plug the LED light into
the adapter and a swivel feature allows
you to direct the light exactly where
you want it so if we install the bulb
and the light is on an angle
we simply
so the light is directed where we want
it to be it's that simple with the LED
upgrade finish we're going to install
some more unique pulse width modulation
technology by RV lighting to make our
new LED light dimmable and controllable
using this wireless ball switch it's as
easy as connecting a couple 12-volt
wires let's do it right now the first
step is to disconnect any power going to
the RVs 12-volt system next remove the
existing light fixture from the ceiling
or wall so you have access to the
12-volt wiring we are going to install
the brain for the dimmer which is this
small piece right here by simply
connecting it to the existing 12-volt
light wiring cut or disconnect the
existing wires going to the light
fixture follow the wiring diagram on the
controller connect one end of the
12-volt positive and negative wiring to
the wires on the PWM dimmer
and connect the wires on the opposite
end to the light fixture itself when the
wires are securely fastened and
reinstalled the light fixture to the
ceiling or wall if the light fixture has
an on/off switch like this one you can
still use it to operate the light but
the really nice feature is you can turn
the light on and off using the wireless
wall switch and you can control the
brightness by using the dimmer control
settings on the wireless wall switch
you can operate the light from up to 32
feet away using the wireless wall switch
the only thing left to do is install the
wireless wall switch in a convenient
location using the double sided tape or
screws to attach it to the wall
if you connect the controller to the
first light in a circuit multiple lights
can be controlled by the wireless wall
switch the output current for the
controller is 5 amps that means you have
a maximum number of light fixtures that
could be linked together to operate from
the same brain when you use the LED with
the PWM technology to dim the lights you
can also add more wireless wall switches
to act as a 3-way switch for the lights
in the circuit that's how simple it is
to not only upgrade your RV lighting
with LED technology but to also control
the brightness of the LED lights with
the wireless wall switch something
really worth mentioning is the
importance of choosing LED lights
designed for use in RVs not all LED
lights are designed to handle
fluctuations in voltage which is quite
common in RVs that's why I'm using LED
lights from RV lighting with the eco led
brand-name for more information or to
purchase these LED products visit
you